.. Copyright David Abrahams 2006. Distributed under the Boost
.. Software License, Version 1.0. (See accompanying
.. file LICENSE_1_0.txt or copy at http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt)

===========================================
 BoostCon 2007 • May 14-18 2007 |(logo)|__ 
===========================================

.. |(logo)| image:: ../boost.png
   :alt: Boost

__ ../index.htm

.. raw:: html

 <style type="text/css">
   table.borderless { 
      border: 0;
   }
   table.borderless td {
      border-style: none none none none;
   }
 </style>

----------

This inaugural Boost conference promises to be the main
face-to-face venue for all things Boost, from using libraries to
writing them, from evangelizing Boost to deployment within your
organization, from infrastructure and process to vision and
mission, and from TR1 to TR2. Given the range and interests of the
participants, the event is going to be intense and in-depth.

.. contents:: Index

Tracks
======

Recognizing the breadth of the community, we are offering two
primary tracks: the first three days will be focused mostly on the
practical interests of Boost and TR1 end-users, and the last three
will be directed more towards hard-core Boost developers, with one
overlap day at midweek.  Thus, the conference fosters interaction
both within *and* across these tracks, with an emphasis on service
to our user base.

Sessions will run in the morning and evening, leaving a midday
break of several hours so that attendees can get out and enjoy the
town and its surroundings, or just to have time to work together in
small, informal groups.

Sessions
========

In the spirit of Boost, many sessions will be participatory and/or
collaborative in nature.  The program committee has issued a `call
for sessions`_.  Please raise any questions about—or ideas for—the
conference on the `Boost mailing lists`__.

.. _call for sessions: http://www.boost.org/more/BoostCon07_session_call.html
__ http://www.boost.org/more/mailing_lists.htm

Venue
=====

The main venue for this conference will be the `Aspen Center for
Physics`__ in Aspen, Colorado.  The town of Aspen is known for its
world-class cuisine and its envigorating, natural setting.  As
generations of scientists can attest, the Center's beautiful
location and its low-key atmosphere create a unique and lively
environment for thought, education, and collaboration.

__ http://www.aspenphys.org

Hotel
=====

The main conference hotel will be the `Aspen Meadows Resort`__.
Located within walking distance of the Physics Center, the Meadows
provides 90 rooms, a restaurant, and overflow conference facilities
should the event expand.

__ http://aspenmeadowsresort.dolce.com/

Conference Size
===============

Much more than having a great number of attendees, it's important
that this first BoostCon be a success, so we're starting small.
Registration will initially be limited to just 100 places, except
that we'll accomodate 200 participants on Wednesday, when the two
main tracks overlap.  Contingency plans are in place that *may* allow
us to expand registration should demand prove overwhelming, but
when registration opens we recommend securing your place early, in
case that isn't possible.

Sessions
========

The program committee is currently forming and drafting a call for
sessions; watch this space in upcoming weeks for an outline of
workshop, session, and talk ideas, and a request for submissions.

Registration
============

Official Registration is not yet open, but an `informal attendee
list`__ for those likely to attend has been set up on the Boost
Wiki.  The conference organizers would very much appreciate it if
you could add an entry to this list if you think you'll be there,
to help us with planning.

__ interest_

.. Admonition:: `Register interest`__ in attending BoostCon 2007

    Thank you!

__ interest_


.. _interest: http://www.crystalclearsoftware.com/cgi-bin/boost_wiki/wiki.pl?BoostCon

Organizing Committee
====================

.. class:: borderless

  +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
  |David Abrahams      |Beman Dawes         |Jeff Garland        |
  +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
  |Joel de Guzman      |Kevlin Henney       |Scott Meyers        |
  +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
  |Eric Niebler        |Sean Parent         |Rene Rivera         |
  +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
  |Jeremy Siek         |Matthias Troyer     |                    |
  +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+

